DOCU-2473: Load Balancing get-started guide update (#4337)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: src/gateway/get-started/load-balancing.md

---
title: Configure Load Balancing
content-type: tutorial
book: get-started
chapter: 6
---

Load balancing is a method of distributing API request traffic across

> multiple upstream services that can process them. Load balancing is useful for multiple reasons

Author: @cloudjumpercat please see latest revision

In the following example, you’ll use an application deployed across two different servers, or upstream targets. 
{{site.base_gateway}} needs to load balance across both servers, so that if one of the servers is unavailable, 
it automatically detects the problem and routes all traffic to the working server.

> An [upstream](/gateway/latest/admin-api/#upstream-object) refers to the service applications sitting behind {{site.base_gateway}}, 

Reviewer: Would this be a better link for "upstreams"? https://deploy-preview-4337--kongdocs.netlify.app/gateway/latest/understanding-kong/key-concepts/upstreams/ 

I thought they might like an explanation topic since it's a getting started topic.

Author: Yep, great idea.  Almost always better to link to an "explainer" than a reference

Author: @cloudjumpercat see latest, Thank you

to which client requests are forwarded. In {{site.base_gateway}}, an upstream represents a virtual hostname and can be 
used to health check, circuit break, and load balance incoming requests over multiple [target](gateway/latest/admin-api/#target-object) backend services.

In this section, you’ll re-configure the service created earlier, (`example_service`) to point to an upstream 
instead of a specific host. For the purposes of our example, the upstream will point to two different targets, 
`httpbin.org` and `mockbin.org`. More commonly, targets will be instances of the same backend service running on different host systems.

Here is a diagram illustrating the setup:

![Upstream targets](/assets/images/docs/getting-started-guide/upstream-targets.png)

## Enable load balancing

In this section, you will create an upstream named `example_upstream` and add two targets to it.

### Prerequisites

This chapter is part of the *Get Started with Kong* series. For the best experience, it is recommended that you follow the
series from the beginning. 

> Start with the introduction [Get Kong](/gateway/latest/get-started/get-kong), which includes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start with the introduction, [Get Kong](/gateway/latest/get-started/get-kong), which includes
```

a list of prerequisites and instructions for running a local {{site.base_gateway}}.

Step two of the guide, [Services and Routes](/gateway/latest/get-started/services-and-routes),
includes instructions for installing a mock service used throughout this series. 

If you haven't completed these steps already, complete them before proceeding.

1. **Create an upstream** 

   Use the Admin API to create an upstream named `example_upstream`:

   ```sh
   curl -X POST http://localhost:8001/upstreams \
     --data name=example_upstream
   ```

1. **Create upstream targets**

   Create two targets for `example_upstream`. Each request creates a new target, and 
   sets the backend service connection endpoint:
   
   ```sh
   curl -X POST http://localhost:8001/upstreams/example_upstream/targets \
     --data target='mockbin.org:80'
   curl -X POST http://localhost:8001/upstreams/example_upstream/targets \
     --data target='httpbin.org:80'
   ```

1. **Update service**

>    In the [services and routes]() section of this guide, you created `example_service` which pointed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   In the [services and routes](/gateway/latest/get-started/services-and-routes/) section of this guide, you created `example_service` which pointed
```

Author: Thank you 🤦

   to an explicit host, `http://mockbin.org`. Now you'll modify that service to point to the upstream instead:
   
   ```sh
   curl -X PATCH http://localhost:8001/services/example_service \
     --data host='example_upstream'
   ```

   You now have an upstream with two targets, `httpbin.org` and `mockbin.org`, and a service pointing to that upstream.

1. **Validate**

>    With the Upstream configured, validate that it’s working by visiting the route `http://localhost:8000/mock` using a web browser or CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Validate that the upstream you configured is working by visiting the route `http://localhost:8000/mock` using a web browser or CLI.
```

This chapter is part of the *Get Started with Kong* series. For the best experience, it is recommended that you follow the
series from the beginning. 

Start with the introduction, [Get Kong](/gateway/latest/get-started/get-kong), which includes
a list of prerequisites and instructions for running a local {{site.base_gateway}}.

Step two of the guide, [Services and Routes](/gateway/latest/get-started/services-and-routes),
includes instructions for installing a mock service used throughout this series. 

If you haven't completed these steps already, complete them before proceeding.

1. **Create an upstream** 

   Use the Admin API to create an upstream named `example_upstream`:

   ```sh
   curl -X POST http://localhost:8001/upstreams \
     --data name=example_upstream
   ```

1. **Create upstream targets**

   Create two targets for `example_upstream`. Each request creates a new target, and 
   sets the backend service connection endpoint:
   
   ```sh
   curl -X POST http://localhost:8001/upstreams/example_upstream/targets \
     --data target='mockbin.org:80'
   curl -X POST http://localhost:8001/upstreams/example_upstream/targets \
     --data target='httpbin.org:80'
   ```

> 1. **Update service**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Update the service**
```
